---
# Automatically generated by bib2md.py
title: "Extracting Probable Command and Control Signatures for Detecting Botnets"
slug: "Zand2014Extracting_Probable"
date: "2014-03-24"
publishdate: "2000-01-01"

authors:
  - "Ali Zand"
  - "Giovanni Vigna"
  - "Xifeng Yan"
  - "Christopher Kruegel"

category: conference
venue: "Proceedings of the 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing (SAC)"


slides: no
paper: no
text: no
external_url: https://doi.org/10.1145/2554850.2554896
video_url: no

bibtex: |
    @inproceedings{Zand2014Extracting_Probable,
      title     = {{Extracting Probable Command and Control Signatures for Detecting Botnets}},
      author    = {Zand, Ali and Vigna, Giovanni and Yan, Xifeng and Kruegel, Christopher},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing},
      series    = {SAC},
      year      = {2014},
      address   = {New York, NY, USA},
      doi       = {10.1145/2554850.2554896},
      isbn      = {978-1-4503-2469-4},
      pages     = {1657--1662},
      publisher = {ACM},
      url       = {https://doi.org/10.1145/2554850.2554896}
    }




---

Botnets, which are networks of compromised machines under the control of a single malicious entity, are a serious threat to online security. The fact that botnets, by definition, receive their commands from a single entity can be leveraged to fight them. To this end, one requires techniques that can detect command and control (C&C) traffic, as well as the servers that host C&C services. Given the knowledge of a C&C server's IP address, one can use this information to detect all hosts that attempt to contact such a server, and subsequently disinfect, disable, or block the infected machines. This information can also be used by law enforcement to take down the C&C server. In this paper, we present a new botnet C&C signature extraction approach that can be used to find C&C communication in traffic generated by executing malware samples in a dynamic analysis system. This approach works in two steps. First, we extract all frequent strings seen in the network traffic. Second, we use a function that assigns a score to each string. This score represents the likelihood that the string is indicative of C&C traffic. This function allows us to rank strings and focus our attention on those that likely represent good C&C signatures. We apply our technique to almost 2.6 million network connections produced by running more than 1.4 million malware samples. Using our technique, we were able to automatically extract a set of signatures that are able to identify C&C traffic. Furthermore, we compared our signatures with those used by existing tools, such as Snort and BotHunter.